'\" -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2004 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.\"{{{}}}
.\"{{{  Title
.TH READBOOTLOG 1 "NOV 12, 2018" "" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Name
.SH NAME
readbootlog \- show contents of the boot log, stripping away control characters
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Synopsis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readbootlog
.RB [ \-h ]
[\-\fBf\fP \fIfile\/\fP]
.br
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Description
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B readbootlog
is a tool for reading the boot log (by default /var/log/boot). The program
strips away control characters and non-human readable contents from the log
file. Output is dumped to the terminal where it can be piped or redirected
to a file.
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Options
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-f\fP \fIfile\fP"
Tells \fBreadbootlog\fP to use a specific file instead of \fB/var/log/boot\fP.
.IP \fB\-h\fP
Displays a brief help message.
.\"{{{  Files
.SH FILES
/var/log/boot
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Author
.SH AUTHOR
Jesse Smith <jsmith@resonatingmedia.com>
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  See also
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bootlogd (8)
.\"}}}
